OK.
So we went over the basics of flex box weekly.
We add display flex to a container and then all of its immediate children get turned into flex items
and we can align them horizontally or in a column.
However we want.
And there's also alignment classes we can use so justification alignment and so on.
So to display this we're going to create a new file called 1 7 underscore flex underscore a line dot
HD him l put our boiler plate in and let's change the title to flex a line and we'll put in our style
tags.
And in the body I just I want the same thing I just want three divs but I want them to have a class
of item and then also their own custom class.
So item 1 2 and 3.
So let's use em in here we'll do class item also.
Class item Dash and I wanted to increment 1 to 3 so we'll use a money sign here and then for the content
inside we use curly braces.
We'll put an H 3 inside each age 3 inside each one and we'll just say item.
And then an incremental number.
So money sign and we'll do this three times four times three.
And there we go.
And one thing I forgot to do was add a container.
So we want to grab all these and shift our option and hit the up arrow and you can just bring it right
up.
OK.
So let's open this in live server and I just want to add some general styling too to the the items.
So let's do that real quick.
So I'm actually gonna paste it in the same styling we had the great background the border padding alignment
and so on and then I'm also gonna add let's do a margin of let's say zero point five for him.
OK.
Now for in order for these to be flex items of course we need to add to the container we need to add
display flex
so we'll save that and again automatically it's going to align Horizontal into a row.
Now let's say that we don't want to just use flex 1 Flex 2 We don't want it to go all the way across
we want them.
We want to give these custom widths.
So basically what we can do is we could use with I'm just going to make them all the same but we could
use width like this and say three hundred pixels.
So now each one is 300 pixels but there is another property that we can use with Flex items called flex
basis which will also give it a width of 300 pixels so basically does the same thing.
All right.
Now let's start off.
Let's start looking at the alignment classes so I want to I want to align these on the are the horizontal
axis right here.
So for that we use justified content and these alignment classes they're going to go classes but properties
are going to go on the container.
So let's say justify dash content and there's a lot of different values for this.
The default is going to be flex start which is is basically aligned to the right here.
Let's actually make this 2D 200 pixels another two hundred pixels.
So flecks start is basically aligning them all to the right.
I'm sorry the left and then we have flex and if we want to align to the right you can see they all got
pushed over another value we have is center.
So we can align them all to the center.
Now we have some some really cool values that we can use as well sort of close that up.
So we have space around we do that what that's gonna do is it's going to divide the space around each
one so you can see over here and then we have the space around the first one around the second one at
and around the third one another one we have is space between which is similar except it's not on the
edge the space the remaining space is going to go in between like that we also have space evenly and
if we save that you'll see now it's just even on all sides so really really cool these these alignment
on the properties and what I'm going to do is I'm going to paste in here inside of a comment all the
different options just so you have them so you know in case you need to come back to this.
All right now let's take a look at a line items which is actually going to align it this way.
Now in order for this to work you're gonna have to set a height on your container.
Now for the container I'm gonna give it a background color just so we can see it.
So I'm gonna say background and let's do we'll do five five five and save.
So right now it just wraps around the content.
But let's give this container a height.
Okay.
So I'm gonna say height and we'll do six hundred pixels and save.
OK.
Now the default for this is gonna be stretch for a line item.
So let's say a line items and if we say stretch and save you'll see that it's the same thing.
Basically they're gonna just stretch all the way down.
Now we also have flex start and flex and so if we do flex start you'll see that there's just going to
line up here.
If we do flex and they're gonna go to the bottom.
If we do
center they're gonna go right in the center as you can see how easy a line aligning this stuff is.
We don't have to judge and do like a padding top in and have it be different pertaining to the browser
high.
Like it's always gonna be in the center.
So let's look at some other ones we also have actually those.
Yeah I think the only other one we have is base line which is just just the normal much of the difference
between baseline and flex start actually but those are the values I'm going to pace those in and let's
just put a comment here and say justify.
Content is is when we align items
horizontal and then a line items is to be a line items vertical OK.
And we should as you put in here that there must be a height
OK so next we're going to show you is a line content and this aligns vertical when there's extra space.
So basically if they wrap what I'm going to do is just copy this down a bunch I'll get rid of it after
but let's save that and let's make it wrap.
So remember we have flex dash wrap and we'll set it to wrap.
I actually think that's too much for the 600 pixel container for the height.
Yeah.
So we'll do that.
So actually take off one more.
So we just have two rows.
So a line content is going to deal with how these are aligned vertically.
So let's go right here and say a line dash content and let's set it to flex start.
OK.
So if we save that you'll see that now that we don't have that giant space in between.
If we want to do flex and save it's going to move all of them to the bottom.
If we do center
gonna go to the center if we do space around we'll do space around which I think is the default.
But we also have space between save that and then that's going to they're just going to go with the
top.
So yeah this has to do with having more than one row.
So I'm going to put a comment here and let's say a line items vertical where there's extra space and
then I'm going to paste the options in here
so hopefully this makes sense.
Now we can also add alignments properties to individual items.
So what I'm going to do is go back to having just three
and let's say we want the second one to be down here.
We want to keep the these two up here but have the middle one down.
So what we can do is that has a class of item to
to
item two.
And then let's put a comment let's say a line it's a single
item vertical.
So this is gonna be a line self.
OK.
So a line self and let's do flex and save it.
Take a look.
And now this one item two is now aligned flex and we can do center if we want
and now it's in the center.
So I'm just going to paste in the options for align self OK.
So the last thing I want to show you is the order.
We can change up the order here without having to change the markup which is is pretty powerful because
your markup you want to be very semantic and you want it to be orderly but you might want it displayed
differently in the browser.
So instead of having to move things around here we can simply use the order property.
So what I'm going to do is say let's to
item one and we already have item two here and then let's do item three and for item three let's to
order one item one we'll do order three in item two let's to order two.
So basically it should be three to one.
So let's save.
And now if we check it out we have item 3 first two and then one and we didn't do anything in the markup.
We just did it all within CSX.
So that's flex order.
I'm sorry just order.
All right.
So I think that we've covered pretty much the basics the core flex blocks and if you're still confused
don't worry about it.
Next we're going to jump in to a pretty cool project where we're gonna be using flex quite a bit.
All right.
So I'll see you in the project.